nip-97: white-listed events. (#1758)
nostr-protocol/nips: 97.md

NIP-97
======

> Private Events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
White-listed Events
```

Private is the wrong name. The event is not private.

--------------

`draft` `optional`

> An event containing `"!"` tag means a private event. A relay supporting private events MUST server private notes only to [NIP-98](98.md) AUTHed pubkeys presented in users kind `10103` [NIP-51](51.md) list.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An event containing an `"!"` tag means a private event. Relays supporting private events MUST serve private notes only to [NIP-98](98.md) AUTHed pubkeys presented in users' kind `10103` [NIP-51](51.md) list.
```

Example of private event:

```jsonc
{
  "kind": 1,
  "tags": [
    ["!"],

>     ["relays", "wss://private-notes.example.com", "wss://secret-notes.example.com", /*...*/],

Reviewer: use many `relay` tags instead of just one `relays`

Reviewer: Or maybe this `relays` tag should be only in the 10103 instead. Which allows the user to switch relays without breaking the instructions on where to send things to.

Author: i think the usage of `relay` tag needs clarification. you are developing a client. what is your opinion about it? how it can be used?

  ],
  "content": "You can't see it before i grant you this permission!",
  // other fields...
}
```

> Clients SHOULD publish private events with a protected tag (`"-"`) to relays who implement and respect this spec.

Reviewer: do you mean `!`?

Author: no. bassicly any of white lsited events are protected using !. but we ask the client to add a `"-"` nip-70 protected tag to these events to prevent unwanted leakage of event so other non nip-97 relays won't accept it.

### Private Follow Request

> A user can request to be added to a pubkey kind `10103` list using a kind `5030` event containing the target pubkey in a `"p"` tag:

Author: fixed.

```jsonc
{
  "kind": 5030,
  "tags": [
    ["relays", "wss://private-notes.example.com", "wss://secret-notes.example.com", /*...*/],

>     ["p", "abc...def"]

Reviewer: include `expiration` in the example

  ],
  "content": "Please let me in.",
  // other fields...
}
```

Clients MAY show `.content` to user as a request message.

> Its RECOMMENDED for clients to add a `"expiration"` tag to kind `5030` since they won't be useful after being accepted or rejected.

Reviewer: I think `expiration` is a MUST here.

Its RECOMMENDED for relays to cleanup kind `5030` after a reasonable amount of time since they won't be useful after being accepted or rejected.

### Clients

> Clients SHOULD keep sending reactions, comments and replies to this events to same relays with protected and private tags, keeping the rest of information private.

Reviewer: Should dependent events also be marked with `!`?

Author: yes, i think so.

NIP-97
======

White-listed Events
-------------------

`draft` `optional`

An event containing an `"!"` tag means a white-listed event. Relays supporting white-listed events MUST serve these notes only to [NIP-98](98.md) AUTHed pubkeys presented in users' kind `10103` [NIP-51](51.md) list.

Example of white-listed event:

```jsonc
{
  "kind": 1,
  "tags": [
    ["!"],
    ["relays", "wss://private-notes.example.com", "wss://secret-notes.example.com", /*...*/],
  ],
  "content": "You can't see it before i grant you this permission!",
  // other fields...
}
```

Clients SHOULD publish white-listed events with a protected tag (`"-"`) to relays who implement and respect this spec.

### Private Follow Request

A user can request to be added to a pubkey kind `10103` list using a kind `819` event containing the target pubkey in a `"p"` tag:

```jsonc
{
  "kind": 819,
  "tags": [

>     ["relay", "wss://private-notes.example.com"],

Reviewer: I don't think these `relay` tags are necessary. The users requesting the permission might not know which relays to use.

Author: i agree. i think it's better to move it to 30010 kind. what do you think?

Reviewer: What's the 30010 kind? 

They might be placed in the `10103` instead.

Author: sorry, my bad. i meant `10103`. correct.
